My king.
General.
We starve them out.
But you're how you can still live.
Negotiations don't concern your general.
And competence does.
Finish it!
You'll not find me as forgiving as the gods.
Yes, my king.
But if Army says,
because you did not obey my words,
all this land will be reduced to ruins.
And this land and its inhabitants
will have to serve the King of Babylon for 70 years.
Where have you been?
It's on the sundown.
Sorry.
Jeremiah was speaking today.
And I stopped by the temple on the way home.
Well, we're almost ready.
You're at the temple again today.
I was.
To gaze upon the pleasantness of Jehovah.
And to look with appreciation upon his temple.
I have something for you.
So you can always have Jehovah's words with you.
Thank you, Papa.
What's wrong?
What's going to happen to us?
What always happens to Jehovah's faithful servants?
Have no fear.
Jehovah is our shield.
Let's sing.
Son, pick a song.
Jehovah is my light in my salvation.
You always choose someone.
Who's him?
I've got to go with Papa.
I know, Zark.
Sure.
And who will you be?
I'll be alive.
There are things we have to go.
We don't live here anymore.
Who's him?
Grab our bags.
What's going on?
Of the tribe of Judah, you will receive training in the house
of the great king, Nebuchadnezzar.
But this is my family.
Prince's and Noble's belonging the power.
He's not a prince.
He's just a boy.
I will go.
If it's a servant, you see.
No.
I'm taking the boy.
Daniel.
Wait.
Can we say goodbye?
Make it quick.
Be strong, my son.
Ola is with you.
Michelle.
Have you seen anyone else?
You didn't think we let you come here alone, did you?
That's right.
In Anaya.
Is this kids' wife in the house?
Nice to meet you.
Joseph?
In Caros house?
No, like Joseph in the dungeon.
Doesn't seem so bad to me.
You don't say something.
You have been chosen because you were wise.
But you are lacking.
You will learn our writing.
And our language.
You will be given new names.
And at the end of three years,
you will serve the great king, Nebuchadnezzar.
Today, you are foreigners.
Tomorrow, the gods willing.
Avalonians.
Meshach.
You look like a Meshach.
My new names sound like their gods.
New names, new language.
Soon they want us to worship their gods.
Calm down.
My father had idols.
And he worshiped Jehovah.
Did you see the same city I did?
It's the center of the world.
We'll even eat from the king's table.
What do Babylonians eat?
His servants are given only the best.
Is there a problem?
Our God doesn't allow us to eat such foods.
Do you feel your God?
I do.
Well, I am afraid of my Lord the King.
Who has assigned your food and drink?
He insists on these selections
to maintain your strength and vitality.
What if he should see you looking worse than appearance
than the other youths who would make me guilty before the king?
I must obey the king.
So much to you.
When dinner is served,
I expect you to be hungry.
You don't speak for us.
You're right.
You can make your own choice.
Didn't you hear him?
We don't have a choice.
It's a new land with new laws.
So what if some of the food is unblood?
It's just food.
But Jehovah commanded us not to eat blood.
It's your interpretation.
You must not eat any blood at all.
What's too interpretant that?
Maybe we should all take a moment and pray.
Pray.
Here.
What's the point?
Jehovah's in Israel.
We're in Babylon now.
Don't you believe Jehovah's here too?
Jehovah said that we're his witnesses.
What will people say about Jehovah
if we give in and break his laws?
Your meal is ready.
Did you hear me?
Thank you.
But if we eat those foods,
we'll disobey our God.
You want to starve?
No, of course not.
But he forbids us from eating blood
and food that he calls unclean.
Please, test your servants for ten days
and let us be given some vegetables to eat
and water to drink.
Vegetables.
Just give us ten days.
And then deal with your servants
according to what you see.
Ashman has a something to do.
My Lord,
He's young men or woman.
I know who they are.
We've been watching you.
All of you.
You don't bow to our idols.
You pray only to your God
and you are not eating our foods.
They insisted that their God would not have...
somehow.
You look healthier than the others.
Continue giving them the diet they've requested.
And Belta Shazar,
your future is bright.
Don't waste it.
Bring in the next group.
Royal ration would be 15 kuru,
2 Payno and 5 Suto.
Correct.
How much interest may a merchant charge on money and grain?
It would be 40% my Lord.
40%.
Have you learned going to be a thief in the past three years?
And you, Meshak?
The rate is 20%.
Very good.
Which star of Enlil is brightest in the Urgala constellation?
Do you know?
It is the Lugow star.
Impressive.
There is a tower that is high.
But nonetheless has no shade.
What is it?
Your ziggurat?
Hopeless.
You who can solve the riddle?
It is sunlight, my Lord.
Correct.
My wisemen teach that the gods are responsible for everything.
If that's so,
why do the good suffer
and the evil prosper?
As you say, O King,
the wise do not always have the food.
Nor do the intelligent always have the riches.
Nor do those with knowledge always have success
because time and unexpected events overtake them all.
Who wrote those words?
Solomon.
Fame for his wisdom.
But its source was his God.
Our God, Jehovah.
Take them away.
When should we return?
You won't.
Go back to your families.
Prove them worthless.
Build the sheds or no.
Not the four of you.
We have more to discuss.
I do not know your God.
But you've proven to be ten times better than any priest
or conjurer I've met.
Ashmanaz will arrange for you to serve in the palace
with my wisemen.
Maybe your gifts are wasted in Jerusalem.
And here they'll be put to use.
The victory in Jerusalem is complete.
Our forces are not preparing to be seized higher.
They should remember what happened as edikaya.
The gods were with us.
Jira, what is it?
It's about Jerusalem.
Where are you going?
Just in my family.
Jerusalem.
They tore down the walls.
They torched its towers.
They didn't die.
And they burned down Jehovah's house.
Why didn't our people listen?
Did they think Jehovah couldn't see what they were doing?
As long as our temple existed, our people had hope.
As long as Jehovah exists, we have hope.
He's rejected us because of our unrighteousness.
He hasn't not everyone.
Jehovah told Ezekiel that in his eyes,
you, our righteous, has Noah,
and Job.
He said that.
He did.
It's Jehovah who cares so much.
And why are we in exile?
Why can't we go home?
Why can't we be together?
You are home, son.
Don't have all the answers.
Stay close to Jehovah.
You will be blessed.
I've had a dream.
And I'm agitated.
I didn't know what I dreamed.
Okay.
May you live on forever.
Relate the dream to your service.
We will tell the interpretation.
No.
If you don't make the dream known to me,
along with the interpretation,
you'll be dismembered.
And your houses will be turned to public latrines.
But if you do tell me the dream,
and the interpretation,
you'll receive gifts,
and a reward,
and great honor.
You've agreed to tell me something false,
and deceitful to a situation changes.
The deceitful?
The deceitful!
There is not a man on earth who can do with the King demands.
What the King is asking is difficult.
No one exists and tell this to the King except the gods.
Ariac sees them.
Kira.
You're in danger.
Why, what happened?
I need everything.
But the Weisman angered the King.
Everyone's to be executed by dawn.
Bring Hanania, Michelle, and Ezoraya here.
I'll try to learn more.
Yes.
Taldian, Egyptian, Jewish.
All the Weisman.
Ariac, both the Shazar.
You should be here.
Why is there such a harsh water from the King?
He had a dream,
and no one can tell him what it is.
Flee now.
If you speak before dawn, you might survive.
Without wisdom!
What are you doing here?
I need to speak with the King.
You need to go.
Please, let me speak with him.
My Lord, this is Belta Shazar.
Okay.
Interpretations belong to my God, Jehovah.
He knows your dream and what it means.
Well, where is your God?
Where?
I believe that he...
I know that he will reveal it to me.
Please, give me time.
We have until morning.
To do what?
To reveal the dream to the King.
How much of the dream is Jehovah revealed to you?
Well, nothing yet.
But Jehovah revealed that he would interpret it.
Right?
Not exactly.
Daniel, how do you know this is even going to happen?
I can't be sure.
You'd better be sure.
His name is at stake.
If he reveals the dream, it proves that he's the true God.
If?
What can we do to help?
Pray.
Pray that Jehovah have mercy on us.
Oh, Jehovah.
Surely you didn't bring us here just to die.
What will people say?
We told them that you are the God of the heavens,
the only God who can reveal secrets.
Please...
vindicate yourself.
Jira?
I found a man from the axiles of Judah,
who could make known the interpretation to the King.
I know who he is.
Can you really make known to me the dream that I saw?
And its interpretation.
There is a God in the heavens who is a revealer of secrets.
And he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar
what is to happen in the final part of the days.
This is your dream.
You saw an immense image.
Image was standing in front of you.
You yourself are the head of gold
after you another kingdom will rise
inferior to you.
Then another kingdom,
a third one of copper
that will rule over the whole earth.
As for the fourth kingdom,
it will be strong like iron.
The kingdom will be divided
and as the toes of the feet
were partly of iron and partly of clay,
so the kingdom will be partly strong
and partly fragile.
In the days of those kings,
the God of heaven will set up a kingdom
that will never be destroyed.
And this kingdom will not be passed
onto any other people.
The dream is true
and its interpretation is trustworthy.
Quick!
Bring the fine robe
and a necklace of gold
earned an instance before him.
Truly your God is a God of gods.
And a lord of kings
and a revealer of secrets.
May your God be honored
by the honor I give you.
You are now ruler
over all the province of Babylon.
O King,
these servants also worship the God in the heavens.
May they too be appointed
to administer the province.
Make the necessary arrangements.
You have proven far superior
and they so-called wise men.
I now appoint you
their chief prefect.
Did you hear it in every caneser?
When he said,
your God is a God of gods
and a lord of kings,
Jehovah entered your prayer.
Jehovah answered our prayers.
What's going to happen next?
Can we go back to Jerusalem?
I don't know what happens next,
but as long as we stay close to Jehovah,
you will always be with us
as long as we have faith in Him.
There's nothing in the stars
about kingdom's crushing kingdoms.
Of course not.
It's a trick.
But how did he know the dream?
I'm a rooter.
Put a message from the God.
I have examined a sheep's liver.
Your future is bright.
Stars of Shabbatue, the giant.
Speak only of your grandeur.
And I'm the head of gold.
Jehovah said so.
Your dream revealed many good things.
But you spelled the Shazar?
He's a Jew.
He's a clever Jew to be sure.
But he couldn't interpret dreams
before he came to Babylon.
He first had to be educated here
and given a Babylonian name.
A name that honors our great God, Bell.
Bell used this young captive
to reveal great things to you.
Bell, not yourhovah who you defeated in Jerusalem.
So the tree is my enemies.
Who is it after the seven times pass over?
Then it is you again, a great king.
You are fools.
At last, built to Shazar,
the chief of the magic practicing priests.
All of the otherwise men are unable
to make the interpretation onto me.
But you're able to do so.
Explain to me the visions I've seen in my dream.
What did you dream?
I saw a tree in the midst of the earth.
And it's height.
It was enormous.
And the tree grew.
And it became strong.
And it's top.
It was the heaven.
The name of my own and of copper.
So who's the tree?
And the dream apply to those hating you.
And it's interpretation to your enemies.
The tree that you saw.
That grew great and became strong.
Whose top reached the heavens and was visible to all the earth.
Which had beautiful foliage, abundant fruit,
and food for all.
beneath which the beasts of the field would dwell, and on whose branches the birds of the heavens would reside.
It is you, O King, and the King saw a watcher, a holy one coming down from the heavens who were saying,
shop down the tree and destroy it.
To leave the stump with its roots in the ground, with a banding of iron and of copper,
and let the dew of the heavens make it wet, it's portioned thee with the beasts of the field,
until seven times pass over it.
This is the interpretation, O King.
It is the decree of the most high.
You will be driven away from among men, and your dwelling will be with the beasts of the field.
And you will be given vegetation to eat, just like bulls, and you will become wet with the dew of the heavens.
And seven times will pass over you, until you know that the most high is ruler in the kingdom of mankind,
and that he grants it to whomever he wants.
But because they said to leave the stump of the tree with its roots, your kingdom will be yours again.
After you come to know that the heavens are ruling, turn away from your sins by doing what is right,
and from your iniquity by showing mercy to the poor, it may be that your prosperity will be extended.
Does Belta Shazzar know in this world?
No, but your wise men doubt that his interpretation can be trusted.
Look at the facts.
Egypt's gods told the Egyptians that they would defeat us, yet you destroyed them.
So why should the god of the Jews be given any more credit?
Look at what you've done. The gods are with you.
You have made Babylon the greatest kingdom on earth.
Belta Shazzar wants you to grovel like a slave.
You. A strong king means a strong king.
Let's continue with our discussion.
The stars end well.
Now the Luke out star is the brightest star in the Ergol of Constance.
Stars are reliable.
Unlike the gods of defeated nations, go back to Jews.
Oh, you could if there was anything left of it.
Has Jehovah revealed anything new?
It's been ten months.
Still no sign of this supposed insanity.
I trust my god.
Yes, as we do, when we read the stars.
But we still shape the message.
You will be held responsible for the words.
And when a wise man speaks lies.
I spoke only what Jehovah revealed.
Have you forgotten?
What happened when some couldn't interpret the dream image?
A death sentence followed.
And that was a flattering interpretation.
The king was ahead of gold.
This time you said he'll go mad.
And nothing has happened.
It will happen.
Maybe. Maybe not.
But your words are against the king.
It's treason.
And no one can protect you from that.
Ten months.
Nothing has happened.
But your words are against the king.
Still no sign of this supposed insanity.
It's treason.
And no one can protect you from that.
What's words with you?
Instruct me in your way, Oh Jehovah.
Do not hand me over to my adversaries.
For false witnesses have risen up against me.
And they threaten me with violence.
Where would I be if I did not have faith?
That I would see Jehovah's goodness in the land of the living?
Please, test your servants for ten days.
Somehow, you look healthier than the others.
Continue giving them the diet they've requested.
I did not know you're gone.
But you've proven ten times better than any priest or conjurer I've met.
He had a dream.
And no one can tell him what it is.
Jehovah answered your prayer.
Hope in Jehovah.
The courageous and strong of heart.
Yes.
Hope in Jehovah.
For our sacrifice to build.
To the gods.
This city.
The world.
Look at the Ishtar Gate.
The gardens.
The Zigarots.
So high.
He reaches the gods themselves.
No one would question that.
It's odd that only twelve months ago, one of your servants.
Dare to suggest that you go and say.
Is this not Babylon the Great?
That I myself have built for the royal house.
With my own strength and might.
And for the glory of my majesty.
To you, it is being said.
O King Nebuchadnezzar.
The kingdom has gone away from you.
And from mankind, you are being driven away.
With the beasts of the field, your dwelling will be.
And you will be given vegetation to eat.
Just like goals.
And seven times will pass over.
Until you know that the most high is ruler in the kingdom of mankind.
And that he grants it to whomever he wants.
Built consistently.
How can you claim Daniel to be a fraud?
This was a trick.
Daniel conspired against your father.
A trick.
Then how did he make it happen?
Everything he has said has come true.
Which is quite different from what he has written for you.
My father.
Who is this God in the heavens?
Jehovah.